Project proposal:  Study available data sets provided by the cities of Boston, New York City, and Philadelphia to assess the best city for a new office based off of preset criteria (crime, health, education, economic data).

The strategy consulting firm X consulting is looking to expand its operation to the north east and is assessing which city is the best option for new placement.  Given the compact nature of the east coast; X consulting has realized that from a business perspective Philadelphia, New York, and Boston are equally attractive due to client proximity and tax options.  The last expansion in the mid / mountain west was based solely on business preferences and while the client services and taxes were highly preferable in Denver; the most recent expansion was not run smoothly due to employee onboarding problems.  X consulting had trouble moving experienced people permanently to the new location and as a result spent significant amounts of money and time hiring,  on-boarding new hires, and raising employee salaries to get the Denver office up and running.  Given the relatively similar client and business benefits of Philadelphia, New York, and Boston, X consulting plans to analyze Philadelphia, Boston, and New York over the next year from an employee attractiveness perspective.

Per the feedback given by employees in recent conversations, the components most important to X employees when deciding on where to move are: crime in a new city, the health prospects of a city (in terms of available healthcare options and the quality of health in a city), educational quality within a city, and general economic situation.  X consulting plans to compare the cities across these criteria to understand what the trade offs are for each city.

As a first pass we have found the following data sets available to help progress our analysis (data sets are from opendata(city name).com).  For the employee safety data, we plan to assess crime logs available for Philadelphia, Boston, and New York.  The crime logs will need to be standardized; but should help to get a better sense of the frequency and type of crime happening in each of these cities.  We believe that assessing these crime logs will be a useful exercise, because although the data varies significantly by city and the information is captured in very different forms using different jargon, we believe that standardizing these data sets to compare the types of crimes and frequency of crimes will be sufficiently worthwhile and beneficial for future decisions. 

From a health perspective, each city has data available on the locations of hospitals which should help to assess the availability of hospitals in these cities.  Additionally Boston and NYC have easily available restaurant inspection data, we will continue to search for this data for Philadelphia.  We believe that these data sets will help us to get a first impression of the health of the city from a care and general health perspective.  Again, despite the different data formats across similar data types (i.e. hospital locations, restaurant inspection data), we believe that the information that can be gleaned from these data sets is well worth the investment to coalesce the data through cleaning and standardizing it.  

For educational data, we will compare exam score data (SAT / ACT / general exam scores) that is available across each city to better understand how students perform on average in these cities and if the quality of education, specifically at a public school level is significantly different amongst these cities.  If available, we will probe into the difference between public and private schools in these cities.

Finally from an economic data perspective, we have been able to identify employee earning reports for Boston, Philadelphia, and NYC for a single year.  We will continue to probe on what additional city financial data is available.  However, this data should hopefully help to give us a rudimentary understanding of what the city financial situation is at present.

While our assessment will primarily depend on the topics discussed above (crime, health, education, and economic information on each city), we will continue to search for relevant data sets to understand what other data, quantitative or qualitative will help us to better understand the opportunities in each city.  Based on initial research we believe that these data sets will help to get us a sufficient answer on the better city for our employees.  The analysis should provide interesting results given the gaps in the data amongst each category as well as the differences in data recording, which will necessitate a sufficient amount of cleaning the data.   However, the results should provide good insight into the safety, educational opportunity, and economic and health situation in each city.  We expect the data to show different cities excel in different areas; and we will ultimately need to weight each criterion differently based on importance to employees.

